<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>I</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 class="xhtml_h3_align" style="text-align: center;">CHAPTER I</h3>
			<p>The weather door of the smoking-room had been left open to the North Atlantic fog, as the big liner rolled and lifted, whistling to warn the fishing-fleet.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat Cheyne boy‚Äôs the biggest nuisance aboard,‚Äù said a man in a frieze overcoat, shutting the door with a bang. ‚ÄúHe isn‚Äôt wanted here. He‚Äôs too fresh.‚Äù</p>
			<p>A white-haired German reached for a sandwich, and grunted between bites: ‚ÄúI know der breed. Ameriga is full of dot kind. I dell you you should imbort ropes‚Äô ends free under your dariff.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPshaw! There isn‚Äôt any real harm to him. He‚Äôs more to be pitied than anything,‚Äù a man from New York drawled, as he lay at full length along the cushions under the wet skylight. ‚ÄúThey‚Äôve dragged him around from hotel to hotel ever since he was a kid. I was talking to his mother this morning. She‚Äôs a lovely lady, but she don‚Äôt pretend to manage him. He‚Äôs going to Europe to finish his education.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúEducation isn‚Äôt begun yet.‚Äù This was a Philadelphian, curled up in a corner. ‚ÄúThat boy gets two hundred a month pocket-money, he told me. He isn‚Äôt sixteen either.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúRailroads, his father, aind‚Äôt it?‚Äù said the German.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYep. That and mines and lumber and shipping. Built one place at San Diego, the old man has; another at Los Angeles; owns half a dozen railroads, half the lumber on the Pacific slope, and lets his wife spend the money,‚Äù the Philadelphian went on lazily. ‚ÄúThe West don‚Äôt suit her, she says. She just tracks around with the boy and her nerves, trying to find out what‚Äôll amuse him, I guess. Florida, Adirondacks, Lakewood, Hot Springs, New York, and round again. He isn‚Äôt much more than a second-hand hotel clerk now. When he‚Äôs finished in Europe he‚Äôll be a holy terror.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat‚Äôs the matter with the old man attending to him personally?‚Äù said a voice from the frieze ulster.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOld man‚Äôs piling up the rocks. ‚ÄòDon‚Äôt want to be disturbed, I guess. He‚Äôll find out his error a few years from now. ‚ÄòPity, because there‚Äôs a heap of good in the boy if you could get at it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMit a rope‚Äôs end; mit a rope‚Äôs end!‚Äù growled the German.</p>
			<p>Once more the door banged, and a slight, slim-built boy perhaps fifteen years old, a half-smoked cigarette hanging from one corner of his mouth, leaned in over the high footway. His pasty yellow complexion did not show well on a person of his years, and his look was a mixture of irresolution, bravado, and very cheap smartness. He was dressed in a cherry-coloured blazer, knickerbockers, red stockings, and bicycle shoes, with a red flannel cap at the back of the head. After whistling between his teeth, as he eyed the company, he said in a loud, high voice: ‚ÄúSay, it‚Äôs thick outside. You can hear the fish-boats squawking all around us. Say, wouldn‚Äôt it be great if we ran down one?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShut the door, Harvey,‚Äù said the New Yorker. ‚ÄúShut the door and stay outside. You‚Äôre not wanted here.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWho‚Äôll stop me?‚Äù he answered, deliberately. ‚ÄúDid you pay for my passage, Mister Martin? ‚ÄòGuess I‚Äôve as good right here as the next man.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He picked up some dice from a checkerboard and began throwing, right hand against left.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSay, gen‚Äôelmen, this is deader‚Äôn mud. Can‚Äôt we make a game of poker between us?‚Äù</p>
			<p>There was no answer, and he puffed his cigarette, swung his legs, and drummed on the table with rather dirty fingers. Then he pulled out a roll of bills as if to count them.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow‚Äôs your mamma this afternoon?‚Äù a man said. ‚ÄúI didn‚Äôt see her at lunch.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIn her state-room, I guess. She‚Äôs ‚Äòmost always sick on the ocean. I‚Äôm going to give the stewardess fifteen dollars for looking after her. I don‚Äôt go down more ‚Äòn I can avoid. It makes me feel mysterious to pass that butler‚Äôs-pantry place. Say, this is the first time I‚Äôve been on the ocean.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, don‚Äôt apologize, Harvey.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWho‚Äôs apologizing? This is the first time I‚Äôve crossed the ocean, gen‚Äôelmen, and, except the first day, I haven‚Äôt been sick one little bit. No, sir!‚Äù He brought down his fist with a triumphant bang, wetted his finger, and went on counting the bills.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, you‚Äôre a high-grade machine, with the writing in plain sight,‚Äù the Philadelphian yawned. ‚ÄúYou‚Äôll blossom into a credit to your country if you don‚Äôt take care.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI know it. I‚Äôm an American√¢¬Ä¬îfirst, last, and all the time. I‚Äôll show ‚Äôem that when I strike Europe. Piff! My cig‚Äôs out. I can‚Äôt smoke the truck the steward sells. Any gen‚Äôelman got a real Turkish cig on him?‚Äù</p>
			<p>The chief engineer entered for a moment, red, smiling, and wet. ‚ÄúSay, Mac,‚Äù cried Harvey cheerfully, ‚Äúhow are we hitting it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúVara much in the ordinary way,‚Äù was the grave reply. ‚ÄúThe young are as polite as ever to their elders, an‚Äô their elders are e‚Äôen tryin‚Äô to appreciate it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>A low chuckle came from a corner. The German opened his cigar-case and handed a skinny black cigar to Harvey.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDot is der broper apparatus to smoke, my young friendt,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúYou vill dry it? Yes? Den you vill be efer so happy.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Harvey lit the unlovely thing with a flourish: he felt that he was getting on in grownup society.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt would take more ‚Äòn this to keel me over,‚Äù he said, ignorant that he was lighting that terrible article, a Wheeling ‚Äústogie.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDot we shall bresently see,‚Äù said the German. ‚ÄúWhere are we now, Mr.¬ÝMactonal‚Äô?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJust there or thereabouts, Mr.¬ÝSchaefer,‚Äù said the engineer. ‚ÄúWe‚Äôll be on the Grand Bank to-night; but in a general way o‚Äô speakin‚Äô, we‚Äôre all among the fishing-fleet now. We‚Äôve shaved three dories an‚Äô near scalped the boom off a Frenchman since noon, an‚Äô that‚Äôs close sailing,‚Äô ye may say.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou like my cigar, eh?‚Äù the German asked, for Harvey‚Äôs eyes were full of tears.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFine, full flavor,‚Äù he answered through shut teeth. ‚ÄúGuess we‚Äôve slowed down a little, haven‚Äôt we? I‚Äôll skip out and see what the log says.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI might if I vhas you,‚Äù said the German.</p>
			<p>Harvey staggered over the wet decks to the nearest rail. He was very unhappy; but he saw the deck-steward lashing chairs together, and, since he had boasted before the man that he was never seasick, his pride made him go aft to the second-saloon deck at the stern, which was finished in a turtle-back. The deck was deserted, and he crawled to the extreme end of it, near the flag-pole. There he doubled up in limp agony, for the Wheeling ‚Äústogie‚Äù joined with the surge and jar of the screw to sieve out his soul. His head swelled; sparks of fire danced before his eyes; his body seemed to lose weight, while his heels wavered in the breeze. He was fainting from seasickness, and a roll of the ship tilted him over the rail on to the smooth lip of the turtle-back. Then a low, gray mother-wave swung out of the fog, tucked Harvey under one arm, so to speak, and pulled him off and away to leeward; the great green closed over him, and he went quietly to sleep.</p>
			<p>He was roused by the sound of a dinner-horn such as they used to blow at a summer-school he had once attended in the Adirondacks. Slowly he remembered that he was Harvey Cheyne, drowned and dead in mid-ocean, but was too weak to fit things together. A new smell filled his nostrils; wet and clammy chills ran down his back, and he was helplessly full of salt water. When he opened his eyes, he perceived that he was still on the top of the sea, for it was running round him in silver-coloured hills, and he was lying on a pile of half-dead fish, looking at a broad human back clothed in a blue jersey.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs no good,‚Äù thought the boy. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm dead, sure enough, and this thing is in charge.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He groaned, and the figure turned its head, showing a pair of little gold rings half hidden in curly black hair.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAha! You feel some pretty well now?‚Äù it said. ‚ÄúLie still so: we trim better.‚Äù</p>
			<p>With a swift jerk he sculled the flickering boat-head on to a foamless sea that lifted her twenty full feet, only to slide her into a glassy pit beyond. But this mountain-climbing did not interrupt blue-jersey‚Äôs talk. ‚ÄúFine good job, I say, that I catch you. Eh, wha-at? Better good job, I say, your boat not catch me. How you come to fall out?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI was sick,‚Äù said Harvey; ‚Äúsick, and couldn‚Äôt help it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJust in time I blow my horn, and your boat she yaw a little. Then I see you come all down. Eh, wha-at? I think you are cut into baits by the screw, but you dreeft√¢¬Ä¬îdreeft to me, and I make a big fish of you. So you shall not die this time.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhere am I?‚Äù said Harvey, who could not see that life was particularly safe where he lay.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou are with me in the dory√¢¬Ä¬îManuel my name, and I come from schooner <i>We‚Äôre Here</i> of Gloucester. I live to Gloucester. By-and-by we get supper. Eh, wha-at?‚Äù</p>
			<p>He seemed to have two pairs of hands and a head of cast-iron, for, not content with blowing through a big conch-shell, he must needs stand up to it, swaying with the sway of the flat-bottomed dory, and send a grinding, thuttering shriek through the fog. How long this entertainment lasted, Harvey could not remember, for he lay back terrified at the sight of the smoking swells. He fancied he heard a gun and a horn and shouting. Something bigger than the dory, but quite as lively, loomed alongside. Several voices talked at once; he was dropped into a dark, heaving hole, where men in oilskins gave him a hot drink and took off his clothes, and he fell asleep.</p>
			<p>When he waked he listened for the first breakfast-bell on the steamer, wondering why his state-room had grown so small. Turning, he looked into a narrow, triangular cave, lit by a lamp hung against a huge square beam. A three-cornered table within arm‚Äôs reach ran from the angle of the bows to the foremast. At the after end, behind a well-used Plymouth stove, sat a boy about his own age, with a flat red face and a pair of twinkling gray eyes. He was dressed in a blue jersey and high rubber boots. Several pairs of the same sort of foot-wear, an old cap, and some worn-out woollen socks lay on the floor, and black and yellow oilskins swayed to and fro beside the bunks. The place was packed as full of smells as a bale is of cotton. The oilskins had a peculiarly thick flavor of their own which made a sort of background to the smells of fried fish, burnt grease, paint, pepper, and stale tobacco; but these, again, were all hooped together by one encircling smell of ship and salt water. Harvey saw with disgust that there were no sheets on his bed-place. He was lying on a piece of dingy ticking full of lumps and nubbles. Then, too, the boat‚Äôs motion was not that of a steamer. She was neither sliding nor rolling, but rather wriggling herself about in a silly, aimless way, like a colt at the end of a halter. Water-noises ran by close to his ear, and beams creaked and whined about him. All these things made him grunt despairingly and think of his mother.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFeelin‚Äô better?‚Äù said the boy, with a grin. ‚ÄúHev some coffee?‚Äù He brought a tin cup full and sweetened it with molasses.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIsn‚Äôt there milk?‚Äù said Harvey, looking round the dark double tier of bunks as if he expected to find a cow there.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, no,‚Äù said the boy. ‚ÄúNer there ain‚Äôt likely to be till ‚Äòbaout mid-September. ‚ÄôTain‚Äôt bad coffee. I made it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Harvey drank in silence, and the boy handed him a plate full of pieces of crisp fried pork, which he ate ravenously.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôve dried your clothes. Guess they‚Äôve shrunk some,‚Äù said the boy. ‚ÄúThey ain‚Äôt our style much√¢¬Ä¬înone of ‚Äôem. Twist round an‚Äô see if you‚Äôre hurt any.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Harvey stretched himself in every direction, but could not report any injuries.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs good,‚Äù the boy said heartily. ‚ÄúFix yerself an‚Äô go on deck. Dad wants to see you. I‚Äôm his son,√¢¬Ä¬îDan, they call me,√¢¬Ä¬îan‚Äô I‚Äôm cook‚Äôs helper an‚Äô everything else aboard that‚Äôs too dirty for the men. There ain‚Äôt no boy here ‚Äòcep‚Äô me sence Otto went overboard√¢¬Ä¬îan‚Äô he was only a Dutchy, an‚Äô twenty year old at that. How‚Äôd you come to fall off in a dead flat ca‚Äôam?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòTwasn‚Äôt a calm,‚Äù said Harvey, sulkily. ‚ÄúIt was a gale, and I was seasick. Guess I must have rolled over the rail.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere was a little common swell yes‚Äôday an‚Äô last night,‚Äù said the boy. ‚ÄúBut ef thet‚Äôs your notion of a gale√¢¬Ä¬î√¢¬Ä¬î‚Äù He whistled. ‚ÄúYou‚Äôll know more ‚Äòfore you‚Äôre through. Hurry! Dad‚Äôs waitin‚Äô.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Like many other unfortunate young people, Harvey had never in all his life received a direct order√¢¬Ä¬înever, at least, without long, and sometimes tearful, explanations of the advantages of obedience and the reasons for the request. Mrs.¬ÝCheyne lived in fear of breaking his spirit, which, perhaps, was the reason that she herself walked on the edge of nervous prostration. He could not see why he should be expected to hurry for any man‚Äôs pleasure, and said so. ‚ÄúYour dad can come down here if he‚Äôs so anxious to talk to me. I want him to take me to New York right away. It‚Äôll pay him.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Dan opened his eyes as the size and beauty of this joke dawned on him. ‚ÄúSay, Dad!‚Äù he shouted up the foc‚Äôsle hatch, ‚Äúhe says you kin slip down an‚Äô see him ef you‚Äôre anxious that way. ‚ÄòHear, Dad?‚Äù</p>
			<p>The answer came back in the deepest voice Harvey had ever heard from a human chest: ‚ÄúQuit foolin‚Äô, Dan, and send him to me.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Dan sniggered, and threw Harvey his warped bicycle shoes. There was something in the tones on the deck that made the boy dissemble his extreme rage and console himself with the thought of gradually unfolding the tale of his own and his father‚Äôs wealth on the voyage home. This rescue would certainly make him a hero among his friends for life. He hoisted himself on deck up a perpendicular ladder, and stumbled aft, over a score of obstructions, to where a small, thick-set, clean-shaven man with gray eyebrows sat on a step that led up to the quarter-deck. The swell had passed in the night, leaving a long, oily sea, dotted round the horizon with the sails of a dozen fishing-boats. Between them lay little black specks, showing where the dories were out fishing. The schooner, with a triangular riding-sail on the mainmast, played easily at anchor, and except for the man by the cabin-roof√¢¬Ä¬î‚Äùhouse‚Äù they call it√¢¬Ä¬îshe was deserted.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMornin‚Äô√¢¬Ä¬îGood afternoon, I should say. You‚Äôve nigh slep‚Äô the clock round, young feller,‚Äù was the greeting.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMornin‚Äô,‚Äù said Harvey. He did not like being called ‚Äúyoung feller‚Äù; and, as one rescued from drowning, expected sympathy. His mother suffered agonies whenever he got his feet wet; but this mariner did not seem excited.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNaow let‚Äôs hear all abaout it. It‚Äôs quite providential, first an‚Äô last, fer all concerned. What might be your name? Where from (we mistrust it‚Äôs Noo York), an‚Äô where baound (we mistrust it‚Äôs Europe)?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Harvey gave his name, the name of the steamer, and a short history of the accident, winding up with a demand to be taken back immediately to New York, where his father would pay anything any one chose to name.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúH‚Äôm,‚Äù said the shaven man, quite unmoved by the end of Harvey‚Äôs speech. ‚ÄúI can‚Äôt say we think special of any man, or boy even, that falls overboard from that kind o‚Äô packet in a flat ca‚Äôam. Least of all when his excuse is that he‚Äôs seasick.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúExcuse!‚Äù cried Harvey. ‚ÄúD‚Äôyou suppose I‚Äôd fall overboard into your dirty little boat for fun?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot knowin‚Äô what your notions o‚Äô fun may be, I can‚Äôt rightly say, young feller. But if I was you, I wouldn‚Äôt call the boat which, under Providence, was the means o‚Äô savin‚Äô ye, names. In the first place, it‚Äôs blame irreligious. In the second, it‚Äôs annoyin‚Äô to my feelin‚Äôs√¢¬Ä¬îan‚Äô I‚Äôm Disko Troop o‚Äô the <i>We‚Äôre Here</i> o‚Äô Gloucester, which you don‚Äôt seem rightly to know.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt know and I don‚Äôt care,‚Äù said Harvey. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm grateful enough for being saved and all that, of course! but I want you to understand that the sooner you take me back to New York the better it‚Äôll pay you.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMeanin‚Äô√¢¬Ä¬îhaow?‚Äù Troop raised one shaggy eyebrow over a suspiciously mild blue eye.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDollars and cents,‚Äù said Harvey, delighted to think that he was making an impression. ‚ÄúCold dollars and cents.‚Äù He thrust a hand into a pocket, and threw out his stomach a little, which was his way of being grand. ‚ÄúYou‚Äôve done the best day‚Äôs work you ever did in your life when you pulled me in. I‚Äôm all the son Harvey Cheyne has.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe‚Äôs bin favoured,‚Äù said Disko, dryly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd if you don‚Äôt know who Harvey Cheyne is, you don‚Äôt know much√¢¬Ä¬îthat‚Äôs all. Now turn her around and let‚Äôs hurry.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Harvey had a notion that the greater part of America was filled with people discussing and envying his father‚Äôs dollars.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMebbe I do, an‚Äô mebbe I don‚Äôt. Take a reef in your stummick, young feller. It‚Äôs full o‚Äô my vittles.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Harvey heard a chuckle from Dan, who was pretending to be busy by the stump-foremast, and blood rushed to his face. ‚ÄúWe‚Äôll pay for that too,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúWhen do you suppose we shall get to New York?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt use Noo York any. Ner Boston. We may see Eastern Point about September; an‚Äô your pa√¢¬Ä¬îI‚Äôm real sorry I hain‚Äôt heerd tell of him√¢¬Ä¬îmay give me ten dollars efter all your talk. Then o‚Äô course he mayn‚Äôt.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTen dollars! Why, see here, I√¢¬Ä¬î‚Äù Harvey dived into his pocket for the wad of bills. All he brought up was a soggy packet of cigarettes.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot lawful currency; an‚Äô bad for the lungs. Heave ‚Äôem overboard, young feller, and try agin.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs been stolen!‚Äù cried Harvey, hotly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôll hev to wait till you see your pa to reward me, then?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúA hundred and thirty-four dollars√¢¬Ä¬îall stolen,‚Äù said Harvey, hunting wildly through his pockets. ‚ÄúGive them back.‚Äù</p>
			<p>A curious change flitted across old Troop‚Äôs hard face. ‚ÄúWhat might you have been doin‚Äô at your time o‚Äô life with one hundred an‚Äô thirty-four dollars, young feller?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt was part of my pocket-money√¢¬Ä¬îfor a month.‚Äù This Harvey thought would be a knock-down blow, and it was√¢¬Ä¬îindirectly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh! One hundred and thirty-four dollars is only part of his pocket-money√¢¬Ä¬îfor one month only! You don‚Äôt remember hittin‚Äô anything when you fell over, do you? Crack agin a stanchion, le‚Äôs say. Old man Hasken o‚Äô the East Wind‚Äù√¢¬Ä¬îTroop seemed to be talking to himself√¢¬Ä¬î‚Äùhe tripped on a hatch an‚Äô butted the mainmast with his head√¢¬Ä¬îhardish. ‚ÄòBaout three weeks afterwards, old man Hasken he would hev it that the ‚ÄúEast Wind‚Äù was a commerce-destroyin‚Äô man-o‚Äô-war, an‚Äô so he declared war on Sable Island because it was Bridish, an‚Äô the shoals run aout too far. They sewed him up in a bed-bag, his head an‚Äô feet appearin‚Äô, fer the rest o‚Äô the trip, an‚Äô now he‚Äôs to home in Essex playin‚Äô with little rag dolls.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Harvey choked with rage, but Troop went on consolingly: ‚ÄúWe‚Äôre sorry fer you. We‚Äôre very sorry fer you√¢¬Ä¬îan‚Äô so young. We won‚Äôt say no more abaout the money, I guess.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòCourse you won‚Äôt. You stole it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSuit yourself. We stole it ef it‚Äôs any comfort to you. Naow, abaout goin‚Äô back. Allowin‚Äô we could do it, which we can‚Äôt, you ain‚Äôt in no fit state to go back to your home, an‚Äô we‚Äôve jest come on to the Banks, workin‚Äô fer our bread. We don‚Äôt see the ha‚Äôaf of a hundred dollars a month, let alone pocket-money; an‚Äô with good luck we‚Äôll be ashore again somewheres abaout the first weeks o‚Äô September.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut√¢¬Ä¬îbut it‚Äôs May now, and I can‚Äôt stay here doin‚Äô nothing just because you want to fish. I can‚Äôt, I tell you!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúRight an‚Äô jest; jest an‚Äô right. No one asks you to do nothin‚Äô. There‚Äôs a heap as you can do, for Otto he went overboard on Le Have. I mistrust he lost his grip in a gale we f‚Äôund there. Anyways, he never come back to deny it. You‚Äôve turned up, plain, plumb providential for all concerned. I mistrust, though, there‚Äôs ruther few things you kin do. Ain‚Äôt thet so?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI can make it lively for you and your crowd when we get ashore,‚Äù said Harvey, with a vicious nod, murmuring vague threats about ‚Äúpiracy,‚Äù at which Troop almost√¢¬Ä¬înot quite√¢¬Ä¬îsmiled.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúExcep‚Äô talk. I‚Äôd forgot that. You ain‚Äôt asked to talk more‚Äôn you‚Äôve a mind to aboard the <i>We‚Äôre Here</i>. Keep your eyes open, an‚Äô help Dan to do ez he‚Äôs bid, an‚Äô sechlike, an‚Äô I‚Äôll give you√¢¬Ä¬îyou ain‚Äôt wuth it, but I‚Äôll give√¢¬Ä¬îten an‚Äô a ha‚Äôaf a month; say thirty-five at the end o‚Äô the trip. A little work will ease up your head, and you kin tell us all abaout your dad an‚Äô your ma an‚Äô your money afterwards.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShe‚Äôs on the steamer,‚Äù said Harvey, his eyes filling with tears. ‚ÄúTake me to New York at once.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPoor woman√¢¬Ä¬îpoor woman! When she has you back she‚Äôll forgit it all, though. There‚Äôs eight of us on the <i>We‚Äôre Here</i>, an‚Äô ef we went back naow√¢¬Ä¬îit‚Äôs more‚Äôn a thousand mile√¢¬Ä¬îwe‚Äôd lose the season. The men they wouldn‚Äôt hev it, allowin‚Äô I was agreeable.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut my father would make it all right.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe‚Äôd try. I don‚Äôt doubt he‚Äôd try,‚Äù said Troop; ‚Äúbut a whole season‚Äôs catch is eight men‚Äôs bread; an‚Äô you‚Äôll be better in your health when you see him in the fall. Go forward an‚Äô help Dan. It‚Äôs ten an‚Äô a ha‚Äôaf a month, e I said, an‚Äô o‚Äô course, all f‚Äôund, same e the rest o‚Äô us.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDo you mean I‚Äôm to clean pots and pans and things?‚Äù said Harvey.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAn‚Äô other things. You‚Äôve no call to shout, young feller.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI won‚Äôt! My father will give you enough to buy this dirty little fish-kettle‚Äù√¢¬Ä¬îHarvey stamped on the deck√¢¬Ä¬î‚Äùten times over, if you take me to New York safe; and√¢¬Ä¬îand√¢¬Ä¬îyou‚Äôre in a hundred and thirty by me, anyhow.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHaow?‚Äù said Troop, the iron face darkening.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow? You know how, well enough. On top of all that, you want me to do menial work‚Äù√¢¬Ä¬îHarvey was very proud of that adjective√¢¬Ä¬î‚Äùtill the Fall. I tell you I will not. You hear?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Troop regarded the top of the mainmast with deep interest for a while, as Harvey harangued fiercely all around him.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHsh!‚Äù he said at last. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm figurin‚Äô out my responsibilities in my own mind. It‚Äôs a matter o‚Äô jedgment.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Dan stole up and plucked Harvey by the elbow. ‚ÄúDon‚Äôt go to tamperin‚Äô with Dad any more,‚Äù he pleaded. ‚ÄúYou‚Äôve called him a thief two or three times over, an‚Äô he don‚Äôt take that from any livin‚Äô bein‚Äô.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI won‚Äôt!‚Äù Harvey almost shrieked, disregarding the advice, and still Troop meditated.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSeems kinder unneighbourly,‚Äù he said at last, his eye travelling down to Harvey. ‚ÄúI√¢¬Ä¬îdon‚Äôt blame you, not a mite, young feeler, nor you won‚Äôt blame me when the bile‚Äôs out o‚Äô your systim. Be sure you sense what I say? Ten an‚Äô a ha‚Äôaf fer second boy on the schooner√¢¬Ä¬îan‚Äô all found√¢¬Ä¬îfer to teach you an‚Äô fer the sake o‚Äô your health. Yes or no?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo!‚Äù said Harvey. ‚ÄúTake me back to New York or I‚Äôll see you√¢¬Ä¬î‚Äù</p>
			<p>He did not exactly remember what followed. He was lying in the scuppers, holding on to a nose that bled while Troop looked down on him serenely.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDan,‚Äù he said to his son, ‚ÄúI was sot agin this young feeler when I first saw him on account o‚Äô hasty jedgments. Never you be led astray by hasty jedgments, Dan. Naow I‚Äôm sorry for him, because he‚Äôs clear distracted in his upper works. He ain‚Äôt responsible fer the names he‚Äôs give me, nor fer his other statements√¢¬Ä¬înor fer jumpin‚Äô overboard, which I‚Äôm abaout ha‚Äôaf convinced he did. You be gentle with him, Dan, ‚Äòr I‚Äôll give you twice what I‚Äôve give him. Them hemmeridges clears the head. Let him sluice it off!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Troop went down solemnly into the cabin, where he and the older men bunked, leaving Dan to comfort the luckless heir to thirty millions.</p>
			<div class="pg_body_wrapper">
				<a id="chap02"/>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
